already in the writing of Aristotle we
have the stated concern that a small
number of people controlling more and
more of the wealth that exists within
that society is a problem for democracy
is bad for democracy in fact in
Aristotle who even get reflections on
the extent to which this is a problem
for aristocracy this is just a problem
for oligarchy and monarchy it's a
problem for any possible organization of
society as he understood it and he tried
to survey all the different ways to
organize the society all the examples
that were available to him in the
history of the world as he knew it if we
begin the discussion this way already
were questioning the elimination of the
billionaire class for reasons radically
different from those that are familiar
from socialists and communists I am NOT
a socialist I am NOT a communist on the
contrary I'm actually anti-communist
however I share with Aristotle this
fundamental concern about extreme wealth
in our society I share an interest in
eliminating billionaires from our
society partly for the welfare of those
billionaires themselves believe it or
not partly in terms of questioning the
future of wealth and what's good for
democracy what's good for a society as a
whole as as stated as something that can
really be examined separately from the
future of poverty this is a really rare
example of a video in which I did more
than one take I like to keep my videos
unscripted and spontaneous and almost
every single video on this channel is
take one with no edits no modification
it's uploaded on that basis but in this
case I'm struggling to get across in a
non-hostile non aggressive way the idea
there is a compelling argument
for the elimination of the billionaire
class that is not based on socialism I'm
not a socialist that is not based on
communism I'm not a communist I'm an
anti-communist and it is not even based
on egalitarianism it's not even based on
an argument for helping the poor on the
contrary the concept of helping the poor
can really be a strange distraction from
what the real issues are when we're
talking about the future of wealth in
our society the function of wealth in
our society and the reasons for why we
should and must in my opinion eliminate
the billionaire class do you think
there's a qualitative difference between
living in a society where one man owns
all of the land and where 10,000 people
owned small plots of land maybe you've
never thought this through before but in
France there's a famous wine growing
region of Agriculture in Bordeaux when
you go there what you find is that the
land is not owned by one man the land is
not owned by one corporation and it's
not really organized you know in the way
that having a central owner would would
organize things use instead you see tiny
little plots here and there each one
owned by a different family and even
though some of those families are
millionaires some of them are
billionaires the Rothschild family is
their famous wealthy family in the
history of Europe the Rothschild family
is their farming wine but they have
their own little tiny plot and then some
distance away there's another little
tiny plot and you know the two guys like
their cousins or brothers different
branches of the family and each family
is focused on making the best use
out of their own tiny plot of land right
now would the quality of wine be
improved if just one man owned all that
land
if just one corporation or just one
family like the Rothschild family bought
the whole wine growing region and
consolidated control you know and
reorganized maybe they could reorganize
it to be more efficiently used have just
one tractor instead of each family open
it gets one tractor and this kind of
thing there would be some efficiencies
of scale you have to admit if just one
family or just one corporation owned
that whole farming district but
something else would change and that's
what I'm trying to draw your attention
to in this argument this video because
it's actually not that easy to perceive
what the problem is with centralization
of control centralization of ownership
right and if you really understand the
history of socialism mystery of
communism the criticism I'm making here
applies both to the billionaire class in
a capital city and also to a communist
dictatorship right because under
communism that's exactly what would
happen also you'd have one owner you'd
have one corporation if you like
reorganizing the land it would just be a
landlord an owner a corporation that
calls itself the people's wine-growing
monopoly or the people's agricultural
monopoly taking over that that reason
and driving out destroying small
platform farmers small small landowners
okay it's natural for people to think
about this problem in terms of
distributing wealth to the poor but
that's actually quite a dishonest
unreasonable distraction from the real
issue here that's why this is so so hard
to articulate at my university in Canada
probably at your university wherever you
are in the United States Europe around
the world the president of the
university has paid a huge amount of
money if you add up salaries and
benefits the president the executive
level the professors at the very top
they are quite likely earning
or university more than 1 million
dollars per year maybe you go to one
unusual university where it's only half
a million dollars per year you would be
surprised there is this cultural
assumption that the president of the
university the executive level people
the university earn huge huge huge
salaries ok if your argument is that by
paying the president less you would help
the poor then that argument is false
right it's just not the case that if the
president the university if his salary
is reduced from 1 million dollars a year
to a hundred thousand dollars a year
it's not the case that nine hundred
thousand dollars would then be given to
starving people it's just not true now
what would happen to the nine hundred
thousand dollars
well there is an achievable goal here of
having a university where instead of one
man earning a million dollars you have
ten professors who are each earning a
hundred thousand dollars that's a team
that's possible right and maybe maybe
those ten professors or maybe you have a
hundred professors who do a greater
extent share the executive
responsibilities of the executive power
reflecting their more even distribution
of wealth none of this is about helping
the poor all of these professors are
wealthy people what we're talking about
is the organization and function of the
wealthy class we're talking with the
future of the wealthy in society we're
not talking about helping the poor but
there are many other things
fundamentally that change here right a
word that probably didn't pop into your
head before when we were talking about
the wine growing region of Bordeaux
having one owner versus many small boat
owners word that probably didn't pop in
your head was innovation innovation
experimentation when you have many small
land owners owning many small parcels of
land and they all care about making the
most out of that land making that most
out of their opportunity okay there is
more innovation there is more
experimentation going on
overall this skill as opposed to just
one man just one corporation controlling
it all and I think it is easy to imagine
that if a university fires its president
says forget it we're gonna fire you now
we have 1 million dollars that we saved
by firing you and we're not going to
hire one person instead we're gonna hire
10 people pay them all hundred thousand
dollars of course you would have more
innovation like conceptually there's a
certain amount of farmland this
university has and they're giving it to
more farmers right so the issue here
really isn't the alleviation of the poor
the issue here isn't the question of how
charitable or society is toward the poor
it's a question more to deal with
qualitatively and quantitatively what
use do we make of our wealth our wealth
in the sense of our country as a whole
or our society as a whole what is the
social function of that wealth and the
distribution of opportunity when more
people have opportunity then there's
more experimentation and more innovation
going on visibly and invisibly it's not
a simple question of oppression versus
liberation and it's not a question of
feeding starving people those are
important questions too but those really
have to be dealt with quite quite
separately here when I was a boy maybe
11 years old maybe 13 years old thing
was about 11 I met a man who owned more
land within England than the total area
of Israel all right so as a boy that was
hard for me to get this one guy he owns
land within England the size of Israel
that was what he said and he had a whole
story about you know his family they
weren't aristocrats but they ended up
buying land from this aristocrat who
went bankrupt the interesting story how
how he came into this and most people in
England who lived on or around this land
he owned they assumed that it was like a
national park because the vast majority
of the land he used was
wasteland rocks and hills and shrubs and
trees there's nothing to you farm
there's nothing meet you so he happens
to own the land but people go hiking on
this land and they just imagine it's a
national park right what would happen if
we took his land and we divided it into
1,000 parcels and we gave that to 1,000
people let's say you and the audience
let's say 1,000 people watch this video
and each one of you is gonna get a small
plot of land somewhere in England that
could be used for some kind of farming
purpose you could use it for an
ecological purpose you could start
running it like a park wildlife park or
animal refuge you could do anything you
want with it okay by distributing that
opportunity so that more people have an
opportunity you're gonna have more
innovation you're gonna have more
experimentation all right this one guy
owns this land and he does nothing with
it or I mean even if it's a corporation
that farms wheat they just farm wheat
and they farm wheat the same everywhere
right that's how that corporation is
anyway when 1000 people owned the land
in separate small plots one of you is
gonna say hey cranberries England has no
history with farming cranberries that's
something we do in Canada in Ontario you
know what I think the climate here works
I think the land I got works for
cranberries I'm gonna try farming
cranberries another one of you will have
taken a vacation in South Korea and you
notice you know what the Koreans they
really have a culture of taking taking
some of these root vegetables and and
making them marketable making them
delicious in a certain way you know
currently here in England you know these
types of root vegetables aren't worth
any money maybe I can take those Korean
techniques and I can try doing them here
and I can try to make it profitable
people are going to buy these vegetables
if I prepare them in a more of a Korean
way but that appeals to the local
marketers like there is going to be
experimentation and innovation and
people don't think of Agriculture in
terms of experimentation and innovation
but this is this is really important and
also that qualitative dimension I've
already have already described or
alluded to of just how much you care
because this is your plot of land this
is your opportunity right so you want to
make the most of it you want to do the
best you can there is a qualitative
difference in our society as a whole
between one billionaire who owns a
thousand apartment buildings and is
collecting rent from all of those
apartment buildings every month and
having a thousand different millionaires
each one owns just one apartment
building okay yes there's an element of
innovation there's an element of
different apartment buildings gonna try
to be appealing or make make the best
their situation the best they can but
there's also just fundamentally this
question of the ethic of care Donald
Trump's father is a was a billionaire
he's deceased now he owned a huge number
of program buildings all over America
he's collecting rents on all of them
okay his attitude is gonna be completely
different from someone who owns just one
building this is my building I've got to
care about how well it's maintained and
how well it's run and how happy the
residents are I've got it I've got to
care about this in this intense and
focused way all right we we have a
better University when we have more
professors who are earning $100,000 as
opposed to the one president earning a
million dollars we have a better society
when we have a landlord class that's
more divided up this way even if we're
talking about a division between many
millionaires we're not talking about
helping the poor if you divide this up
if again fundamentally it's just as much
of a delusion to say we're gonna help
the poor by paying the president the
university less it's just as much of a
delusion to say we're gonna help the
poor by paying your landlord less if you
live in an apartment building or a
condominium tower that's owned by one of
these massive corporations but we're
gonna make our whole society better in
this way that's difficult to trace
that's difficult to pin down if instead
we have a thousand millionaires
controlling a thousand separate
apartment buildings as opposed to one
billionaire or one multibillion-dollar
corporation that controls all of the
apartment buildings this
critique has existed since aristotle
already in Aristotle's time we live in a
society where there were two classes of
men there were people who paid rent and
there were people who collected the rent
as long as the landlords are correct
collecting rent even if the people
paying rent aren't poor they may be
middle-class that may be wealthy some of
them though are gonna be the poor
getting poorer as long as the landlord
class is collecting rent than they are
getting richer and richer mature until
you get this kind of extreme inequality
within the rich where you could in
theory have one billionaire who owns all
of the apartment buildings in your whole
country who's collecting rent from
everyone everyone else is paying rent
and one person one person is profiting
by right everyone buys cell phones
cellular phones and there's one man who
owns the factory that manufactures those
cellular phones that one man the man who
manufactures the iPhone and most of the
other high-end expensive cellular phones
the one man who owns that corporation he
he stood for election here in Taiwan in
the last election everyone knew this guy
is just such a multi billionaire he just
has so much money the question is will
he buy the election he dropped out right
right now in the United States you have
a multi billionaire and the question is
will he buy will he control the
Democratic primary but there's a broader
question right aristocratic societies
exist by and for the aristocratic class
all right
societies dominated by billionaires
exist by and for the billionaire class
even if they don't get elected directly
right in directly and ineluctably they
have a weight and presence in this
culture all right and in a country like
Canada you really can't have a situation
where there's one family that controls
all of the pulp and paper industry and
there's one family that controls you
know all of the washing machines you
know that used to be the case in Canada
back before we had free trade and that
comped
where there's one family that got
fantastically rich from agricultural
equipment like tractors and so forth
where you know it's not quite as extreme
yet as one family that collects rent
from everyone but it can eat especially
in smaller economies it can become that
unequal it can become that bad sector by
sector when you look across the economy
and you can't see the opportunity and
innovation that snuffed out by this
centralization of power and ownership by
just one man or just one family or just
one corporation you can't see that the
farming regions of Canada could be as
innovative as high quality as the
farming regions of France where there
are all these little small plot farmers
who are passionately committed to making
the most money you can't see that when
one giant corporation like Cargill just
owns this huge amount of land and farms
it for one purpose and one uniform way
paying people absolute minimum wage when
you take away that element of engagement
and responsibility and care and the
potential for innovation you can't see
what's missing right you can't see the
absence you can't see the way in which
our whole society is corrupted by the
role that the billionaire class
currently plays you can see the success
of the Disney Corporation what's harder
to see is how much better our whole
culture would be how much more vibrant
our whole democracy would be if it were
divided up into say eight smaller
corporations don't believe me think it
through
right now there is a Walt Disney theme
park on the west coast California and
there's a Walt Disney park on the east
coast in Florida what if instead of
striving for uniformity what if they
were really innovating separately and
each was competing against the other
they divided their intellectual property
there right what if those two
were separate rival corporations making
different kinds of films and different
kinds of attractions at the theme parks
wouldn't the world be a better place it
would be and it would be a better place
in a way that has absolutely nothing to
do with helping the poor that's what's
so interesting about this we're talking
about reorganizing the wealthy in
society reorganizing the wealth of
society so that we can have a better
democracy which is also Aristotle's
concern right Aristotle was not a
socialist he was not it he was not a
communist right even though the type of
qualitative changed the type of
quantitative change here it wouldn't
take money away from a billionaire and
hand it to a starving homeless person
that is in a fascinating way irrelevant
to this question of why we should why we
must eliminate the billionaire class